# Kaggle-Bike Sharing Demand Prediction
# Few Questions
a.	[What is the overall purpose of this project?](#Overall-Purpose)\
b.	[What do each file in your repository do?](#File-Function)\
c.	[What methods did you use to clean the data or do feature engineering?](#Feature-Engineering)\
d.	[What methods did you use to generate predictions?](#Prediction-Method)\

## Overall Purpose
Bike sharing systems are a means of renting bicycles where the process of obtaining membership, rental, and bike return is automated via a network of kiosk locations throughout a city. Using these systems, people are able rent a bike from a one location and return it to a different place on an as-needed basis. Currently, there are over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world.

The data generated by these systems makes them attractive for researchers because the duration of travel, departure location, arrival location, and time elapsed is explicitly recorded. Bike sharing systems therefore function as a sensor network, which can be used for studying mobility in a city. In this competition, participants are asked to combine historical usage patterns with weather data in order to forecast bike rental demand in the Capital Bikeshare program in Washington, D.C.

By taking the STAT 495 - Kaggle Competition, I tried a few machine learning algorisms, this project is one late submission with score of 0.65051, rank (2386/3242). My best submission for this competition is 0.63879.

## File Function
There's only one file in this Repo: xgboost-bike-sharing.ipynb. This notebook file contain all the steps.\
## Feature Engineering
### Data Fields
* datetime - hourly date + timestamp
* season - 1 = spring, 2 = summer, 3 = fall, 4 = winter
* holiday - whether the day is considered a holiday
* workingday - whether the day is neither a weekend nor holiday
* weather -
    *  1 - Clear, Few clouds, Partly cloudy, Partly cloudy
    *  2 - Mist + Cloudy, Mist + Broken clouds, Mist + Few clouds, Mist
    *  3 - Light Snow, Light Rain + Thunderstorm + Scattered clouds, Light Rain + Scattered clouds
    *  4 - Heavy Rain + Ice Pallets + Thunderstorm + Mist, Snow + Fog
* temp - temperature in Celsius
* atemp - "feels like" temperature in Celsius
* humidity - relative humidity
* windspeed - wind speed
* casual - number of non-registered user rentals initiated
* registered - number of registered user rentals initiated
* count - number of total rentals (Dependent Variable)

### Feature Engineering
```
season        0.163439
holiday      -0.005393
workingday    0.011594
weather      -0.128655
temp          0.394454
atemp         0.389784
humidity     -0.317371
windspeed     0.101369
count         1.000000
year          0.260403
month         0.166862
DOW          -0.002283
hour          0.400601
Name: count, dtype: float64
```

By looking at the correlation table, I filtered the variables whose correlations are more than 0.15. They are: season, temp, year, month, hour. Hours has the highest coefficient.
## Prediction Method

XGBoost is the method that I used. By using the RSMLE function to valuate the score. The model is 0.469654. Probably the linear regression model has a lower score.